---
course_id: 8-821-string-theory-and-holographic-duality-fall-2014
is_media_gallery: true
layout: course_section
menu:
  leftnav:
    identifier: a4de97d626226df6d8292367093665f1
    name: Video Lectures
    weight: 50
title: Video Lectures
type: course
uid: a4de97d626226df6d8292367093665f1

---
{{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/emergence-of-gravity" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 1: Emergence of Gravity" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu discusses the concept of emergent gravity, and proves the Weinberg-witten no go theorem which forbids existence of massless spin-2 particles. The beginning of the lecture is devoted to course information. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/EUnGZoBa3nc/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/classical-black-hole-geometry" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 2: Classical Black Hole Geometry" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first discusses important scales in classical and quantum gravity, and then reviews the spacetime geometry of a black hole. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/WVOIk8en6YE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/causal-structure-of-a-black-hole-and-black-hole-temperature" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 3: Causal Structure of a Black Hole and Black Hole Temperature" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first discusses the causal structure of black hole geometry, and that of a closely related spacetime called Rindler spacetime. He shows that a black hole has a nonzero temperature to an observer at infinity. He also derives a closely related phenomenon: In Minkowski spacetime, an accelerated observer feels a temperature proportional to her acceleration. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/LTEtH1gzwoE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/physical-interpretation-of-black-hole-temperature" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 4: Physical Interpretation of Black Hole Temperature" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu gives a physical interpretation of the black hole temperature, and similarly the temperature experienced by an accelerated observer in Minkowski spacetime, in terms of entanglement of the vacuum state of a quantum field theory in these spacetimes. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/gLYwLyeE8oU/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/black-hole-thermodynamics" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 5: Black Hole Thermodynamics" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first discusses four laws of black hole mechanics, and then relates them to laws of thermodynamics. This shows that a black hole is a thermal object with not only temperature, but also entropy. He also outlines the black hole information paradox. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/hIvrYfwUyZQ/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/holographic-principle" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 6: Holographic Principle" description="Description: In the first part of this lecture, Prof. Liu explains physical motivation behind the holographic principle, and a formulation of the principle. In the second part, he starts a new topic on the large N limit of a non-Abelian gauge theory. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/1pkoBetgo7s/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/structure-of-large-n-expansion" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 7: Structure of Large-N Expansion" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu continues discussion of theories whose fields are built out of matrices. When the rank N of the matrices become large, observables can be expanded in 1 / N. This large-N expansion can be organized in terms of topology of Feynman diagrams. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/14_8tzAd1rA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/large-n-expansion-as-a-string-theory-part-i" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 8: Large-N Expansion as a String Theory, Part I" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu connects the topological expansion of a matrix field theory in 1 / N  to the perturbative expansion of a string theory. The structure of perturbative expansion of a string theory is explained from first principle. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/LoIXB2GJHkg/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/large-n-expansion-as-a-string-theory-part-ii" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 9: Large-N expansion as a String Theory, Part II" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu wraps up the mathematical connection between 1 / N expansion of a large N matrix field theory with the perturbative expansion of a string theory. The second half of this lecture starts Part 2 of the course, the first topic of which is an introduction to string theory. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/M_8UajiNlDg/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/basics-of-string-theory-and-light-cone-gauge" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 10: Basics of String Theory and Light-cone Gauge" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first introduces general setup of string theory, including various forms of the string action and symmetries of the action. He then solves classical string dynamics in the light-cone gauge. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/owhNn20aZo8/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/string-theory-in-the-light-cone-gauge" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 11: String Theory in the Light-Cone Gauge" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first finishes discussing class string dynamics in the light-cone gauge, and then proceeds to quantize the theory in the light-cone gauge. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/jhyWwA_bJ5A/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/string-spectrum-and-graviton" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 12: String Spectrum and Graviton" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first discusses closed string spectrum obtained from light-cone quantization. The essential point is that among closed string excitation there is a massless spin-2 particle, which can be interpreted as the graviton. He then briefly discusses string interactions which confirms the interpretation of the graviton. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Wcy-zCt8llk/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/physics-of-d-branes-part-i" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 13: Physics of D-branes, Part I" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu introduces the definition of D-branes, finds spectrum of open strings on D-branes, which can be interpreted as excitations of D-branes. Among excitations are massless vector fields whose low energy effective actions are given by a U(1) gauge theory. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/iPWIqjYkVns/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/physics-of-d-branes-part-ii" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 14: Physics of D-branes, Part II" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu continues discussion of physics of D-branes, including low energy effective action, tension of D-branes, low energy effective theory of multiple coincidental D-branes, which are described by a non-Abelian gauge theory. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/k6HCdJ9lKho/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/physics-of-d-branes-part-iii" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 15: Physics of D-branes, Part III" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu continues discussion of physics of D-branes, including an overview of different types of D-branes in type II super string theory, and then description of D-branes as in terms of spacetime geometries. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/-mrxN8XcQOQ/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/geometry-of-d-branes-and-ads-cft-conjecture" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 16: Geometry of D-branes and AdS / CFT Conjecture" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first discusses near-horizon geometry of a D3-brane and then consider a limit which decouples the asymptotically flat region of the geometry. The same limit applied to low energy theory of D-branes then gives the AdS / CFT duality. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/1LEYgS8Wzsk/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/more-on-ads-cft-duality" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 17: More on AdS / CFT Duality" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu further explains two sides of the AdS / CFT duality, including a brief overview of string theory and gravity in AdS spacetime. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/0fChZwU1zEc/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/general-aspects-of-the-duality" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 18: General Aspects of the Duality" description="Description: This lecture begins Part 3 of the course: Duality Toolbox. In this lecture, Prof. Liu discusses general aspects of the duality, including the IR / UV connection and matching of symmetries, parameters and spectrum between two sides of the duality. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/nW4vp_upvmE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/mass-dimension-relation" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 19: Mass-dimension Relation" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu goes deeper into the matching of spectrum of the two sides of the duality, how the mass of a field in AdS spacetime is related to the scaling dimension of the corresponding operator in the boundary theory. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/eGPpz9kYUCg/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/euclidean-correlation-functions-two-point-functions" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 20: Euclidean Correlation Functions: Two-point Functions" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first motivates a prescription for obtaining Euclidean correlation functions of the boundary theory from bulk gravity. He then discusses in details the computation of two-point functions as an illustration of how the prescription works. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/1OGZCt58GLc/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/euclidean-correlation-functions-higher-point-functions" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 21: Euclidean Correlation Functions: Higher-point Functions" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first continues the discussion of Euclidean correlation functions by outlining how the prescription works for higher-point functions. In the second half, he starts the discussion of how to evaluate the Wilson loop of a boundary theory using the corresponding AdS string theory. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/oXsC9bjMJA4/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/computation-of-the-wilson-loop" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 22: Computation of the Wilson Loop" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first continues the discussion of the computation of the Wilson loop started in last lecture. He introduces the prescription for the computation and then uses it to calculate the Coulomb potential between a heavy quark and anti-quark in the N=4 SYM theory. In the second half, he discusses the generalization of the duality to a boundary system at a finite temperature. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/WPuDh61Lkpg/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/duality-at-a-finite-temperature-and-finite-chemical-potential" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 23: Duality at a Finite Temperature and Finite Chemical Potential" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu first discusses an important prediction of the duality for a boundary field theory at a finite temperature: Hawking-page transition, i.e. a finite temperature boundary system should exhibit a first order phase transition as the temperature is raised in the large N limit. Near the end, he briefly discusses how the duality works if the boundary system has a finite chemical potential. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/raP-0nqnF_A/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/sections/video-lectures/holographic-entanglement-entropy" section="Video Lectures" title="Lecture 24: Holographic Entanglement Entropy" description="Description: In this lecture, Prof. Liu discusses how to calculate the entanglement entropy of a boundary system using the AdS gravity. He gives a holographic proof of the strong Sub-additivity conditions of the entanglement entropy, and discusses a simple example. Instructor: Hong Liu" thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/_75zfIar62c/default.jpg" >}}